# Multisensory-Fusion-and-Low-Latency-Sleep-Apnea-Detection


Sleep Apnoea is a condition that disturbs normal breathing as one is asleep. Various health factors can cause sleep apnea, triggering several health issues such as heart diseases, high blood pressure, insomnia, etc. Diagnosis of sleep apnea is a substantial medical concern because, according to an NHS study, undiagnosed people will cost NHS twice the diagnosed ones. Polysomnography(PSG) is the gold standard diagnostic test to detect sleep apnea. Previous research has used the PSG test and processed the single or multisensory data to detect sleep apnea events. However, most of the research focused on adult sleep apnea data. Child sleep apnea studies are relatively few because PSG tests require the subject to go to the hospital or sleep study centre and stay there overnight. This is a complicated scenario for kids due to obvious reasons. It is also hard for children to have a regular sleep cycle in the hospital or sleep study centre. For this research, children's sleep study data is acquired from Sheffield Children's NHS Foundation Trust hospital and analysed and processed with statistical learning models. The main challenge is that the dataset, with only eight participants,  is tiny compared to the apnea datasets used in previous research. Therefore, the choice of the statistical model needs to be made very carefully. Also, the prediction latency needs to be very low, as it can be used in low-resource scenarios. For this work, the raw corpus from Sheffield Children's NHS Foundation Trust hospital is parsed, processed, filtered and the dataset is prepared. Support vector machine, logistic regression and neural network models are used to learn the data distribution and apnea events. Their performance and latency are compared to suggest an optimal machine learning solution for this dataset. A multichannel convolutional neural network is used to fuse the five sensory inputs with weighted learnable parameters, which got 98.1\% accuracy on the test set. Furthermore, the dataset is visualised with the model's decision boundaries to analyse the multisensory features and their relationships. These findings will be helpful in low-resource sleep apnea detection research and, most importantly, children's sleep apnea research. Finally, this work discussed the tradeoffs between various statistical learning algorithms and proposed a future research path.
